* DM14 Strategy Guide /by dk/

A map with many corners. This map is played in a campy way, since DM14
is divided into 2 parts. Both sides have more or less equal health,
armor, weapons and powerups.  While theoretically, the map is pretty
easy to play, playing DM14 really depends on you, your Team, the
opponents playing style and how the powerups spawn. DM14 is probably
the most tactical of all the TDM maps, and needs careful thought. 10
Frags can be a big lead on this map.

* Items Available
** Weapons
- 1 Shotgun (SG)
- 1 Railgun ( RG )
- 1 Grenade Launcher (GL)
- 1 Lightning Gun (LG)
- 2 Rocket Launcher (RL)

** Armors
- 1 Red Armor (RA)
- 2 Yellow Armor (YA)
- 5 Shards
** Powerups
- Battlesuit
- Quad
* Team in control:
  The team in control will try and hold the Red Armour room. It is
  always good starting in the Red Armor room. Tell it your mates that
  you have Red. They need to come quick and help you! Similarly, if at
  any point in the game, you secure the RA room, tell your mates, so
  they can move in and help secure the room.
** Why do we want to hold RA?
  1. Its relatively easy to secure (discussed below).
  2. You have Red Armour + 25 armour worth of Shards ( shards are in Shotgun room )
  3. You are next to Battlestuit
  4. It is easier to access and secure the Railgun from the RA room, as compared to the YA positions.
  5. You have a total of 3 Weapons here ( RL, Rail, Shotgun )
  6. You can pressure other team through 3 routes.

Red is subdivided into 4 positions.  Make them safe and hold them !

** 1.
The first position that must be held is the RL, and the two spawns
next to it.  A lot of times an enemy spawns, no one is there, enemy
gets RL, then the Red Armor, and before you know it, your hold on the
RA room is tenuous at best. That\u2019s not to say it will happen all
the time, but if its reasonably foreseeable, and has happened a lot in
the past. Plus, if you can secure this point, instead of new spawns
being a danger, you will get easy spawn kills.  Also keep an eye out
for enemies trying to steal RA from jumppad in middle, or from railgun
area.

** 2.
The second position that must be held is the platform area just on top
of RA, opposite to position 1.  This position can quickly grab the Red
Armor, further helping keep the RA secure. Watch out for enemies
trying to steal RA from middle jumppad, and from railgun area.  This
position also acts as the support person. He can easily help Shotgun
person (position 3) or Railgun person (position 4), as needed.

** 3.
The third position that must be held is the shotgun room. This is a
really important position for the Red Area, especially just before the
battlesuit spawns (enemy could try and rush through this room, then
drop down through hole and ninja the battlesuit).  besides that, this
room has shards worth 25 Armor points (every little bit helps!), and
you have the shotgun! Securing this room is absolutely critical for RA
control. Try and make sure this player has a Rocket Launcher, as it
makes things a lot easier.

If your team is stacked and you\u2019re holding the shotgun room, you
can apply pressure at quad, by chipping away at enemies healths,
grabbing their yellow armor or LG, even if you only manage to steal
just 1 item. Don\u2019t over extend though, and don\u2019t push
recklessly, sometimes every frag/kill can be important. Remember: your
role is to hold the shotgun room, so don\u2019t needlessly chase
enemies.

** 4.	
The 4th position that must be held is the Railgun enclosure. Secure
it! And dont let the enemy get a Railgun!  This is especially
important at battlesuit time, as an enemy at RG at powerup time can
easily chip away at your stacked player while he waits for battlesuit,
making it harder for you to battle Quad, and at worst, can knock your
battlesuit carrier into the void. As you can imagine, you will lose
control if the Quad then comes in and mops up. More on this below.

* Out of Control.
  The team NOT in control has to hold upper and lower YAs, and wait
  for next powerup.  You will not always start in the RA room, or will
  lose control of the RA room often. At such times, as soon as you
  realize that you are losing control, or will lose control very soon,
  tell your team mates to go to their 'out of control'
  positions. This is important, as you don\u2019t want to give away
  free frags for naught. It's not bad losing control and the RA
  room; it's just bad to give away free frags. Keep your weapons,
  build up a stack, and get back control with the next set of
  powerups. Its only 2 minutes away, at most.  So how do we position
  ourself, and safely build up a stack?

 

** 1 & 2.
   2 persons will secure the LG/YA/Quad area. 1 has to always check
   Shaft/YA area incase enemy comes from there, and the 2nd has to
   keep an eye on the door that leads to Shotgun. It is of absolutely,
   critically, vitally (you get the point) important to have the the
   Quad room secure when Quad is about to spawn. Nothing is more
   dangerous than a battlesuit with quad.
	
** 3.
   The other two will secure the lower YA/RL area.  Caution: If enemy
   is putting pressure from shotgun room, and has a rail, think twice
   before using the pictured jumppad.

** 4.
Try to get the Railgun or at least apply pressure there.  Railgun is a
really powerful tool in defending the Quadroom. If you get rail, think
about switching with one of the guys at Shaft/Quad area. Ofcourse LG
is also good, but a rail will definitely boost defensive power.
	


 

* Powerup Time!

Securing Battlesuit. The team that has control will generally find it
easier to secure and acquire the battlesuit.  Rule: The player on your
team who has the most armor is going to get Battlesuit.  So decide it
already as soon as possible. Figure this out in advance of the
battlesuit spawning, then get into position.  This is the best way to
secure BS:

** 1.
Secure the Railgun! Why ? If the enemy holds the railgun area, they
can apply pressure by spamming rockets or, worse, railing. In the
worst case scenario, they can rail your BS carrier into the void.

** 2.
Secure the Shotgun room! Why? Enemy can go through the Shotgun and
try to ninja-steal the BS by going through the hole! Although that is
the worst case scenario, the enemy can easily damage the BS carrier,
or perhaps knock him into void. That's why you need to secure the
shotgun room.

** 3.
This position is also important, secure it before BS spawns. Enemy can
come from lower RL and try to get BS.  Holding this position is easier
and better if you have a RL. Additionally, if the Rail enclosure is
lost, you can spam Rockets to Rail to shut out enemy and hopefully
secure Battlesuit.

** 3a.
Get to position 3 by going down the jumppad in the centre of the RA
room. Don't risk being voided by going through the hole on top of
battlesuit! The jumppad route is quicker and safer.

** 4.
The player on your team who will take battlesuit has to go through
using this hole.  Try NOT to be early for battlesuit (even 10 seconds
early is too early). Time the battlesuit to the T, else you will risk
being voided. While you're waiting to go through the Hole for
battlesuit, don't weaken your own stack by greedily trying to get
spawn kills. You will get 1 frag, but lose battlesuit, whereas a fully
stacked battlesuit can get as many as 10 frags.  So your aim is to get
the battlesuit with as much HP and Armour as you can. This is
critical, as you will often have to face off against Quad very very
soon.

* Securing Quad.
This is the best way to secure the quad.
** 1, 2 & 3
3 People at Quad.  1st checks shaft / YA area.  2nd and 3rd keep an
eye on the doors leading to the shotgun area. Watch out for Railers
who apply pressure from the shotgun area doors. If that happens, use
the Grenade launcher to apply counter-pressure, and push them back
into the shotgun room. Do NOT let the Quad guy take damage
unnecessarily. Quad is the key to wrest back control of the RA room.

** 4.
The 4th guy acts as a sort of spy. He checks out if enemy is coming to
Quad through Railgun or Battlesuit area. If you can spam and stop
them, do so, but if the situation looks dangerous, go up the jumppad,
let your team mates know how many are coming from below, then spam
down the pad to stop them.
